let's turn to the Middle East where
Hamas has issued a statement stressing
what it called its positivity in
negotiations on a new ceasefire and
hostage release deal in Gaza Hamas also
rejected a claim by the US Secretary of
State that they presented unworkable
changes to the deal Anon blinkin said
that American and other mediators will
work over the coming days to see if they
can reach an agreement for a ceasefire
in
Gaza well we are Middle East
correspondent yoland n is in Jerusalem
and joins us now on the line and um
yoland why do you think Hamas is issuing
this statement when the US Secretary of
State has already criticized their
response to the ceasefire
deal I mean really Hamas is coming out
here uh defending its own position we
heard um from the US top Diplomat
Anthony blinkin when he was in Doha
yesterday having um looked through this
Hass reply to the latest three-phase
plan that was outlined by President
Biden back on the 31st of May that Hamas
was uh demanding changes some of which
were seen as being relatively minor um a
later um a White House official said
they were not on anticipated those
changes but there were also changes
there which Mr blinkin described as
being unworkable and going Beyond uh
previous positions laid out by Hamas so
in this short statement Hamas says that
it had uh signed up to a deal back on
the the 6th of May but then afterwards
pointed out that Israel began uh in
Earnest its military offensive in Rafa
this ground and Air Assault um and then
it said also uh that um while Mr blinken
was speaking about Israeli approval of
the latest plan it wasn't hearing that
same approval coming uh from Israeli
officials so it's asking the US to put
more pressure on Israel uh to agree to
this new ceasefire plan and nevertheless
uh yoland at the end of his visit uh
blinkin saying he was optimistic that a
ceasefire deal could be reached how is
his latest tour of the region being
viewed
there I mean certainly this was a a Fast
Trip Around the region by Mr blink and a
very timely one uh given that the Hamas
response came through at this point it
was just after um there was a shift in
his Politics as well after the Centrist
Minister Benny Gan seen as someone the
Americans could talk to uh left the
emergency wartime government of the
Israeli Prime Minister Benjamin
Netanyahu making him more reliant on
hardliners so Mr blinken knew that he
had his work cut out for him as he went
around the region trying uh to push um
Hamas in particular but also for Israel
to kind of sign up uh to this deal we
got the message from mediators that they
were going to continue their
negotiations to try to bridge the gap uh
between the two sides and some reports
um uh certainly in the Israeli media
today about what some of the changes are
um that Hamas um is demanding which give
us an idea of what negotiations May
Center on uh they're saying that Hamas
is wanting a complete say on uh exactly
which Palestinian prisoners would be
released from Israeli jails in exchange
for those Israeli hostages being
released uh by Hamas from Gaza um that
Israel should withdraw according to
Hamas uh in the first uh few days um of
the uh of the plan um they should
withdraw from the main road which is
currently dividing um the North and the
South of Gaza that would presumably
allow uh displace people from the South
to go back to their homes uh in the
north um other specifications around
that as well and they're also asking
Hamas apparently for uh International
guarantees that there would be a move
from the the first phase um of this
three-phase plan which is supposed to be
for a temporary truce with hostages
being released to the second phase which
is supposed to work towards a permanent
uh end to fighting and and see the
remaining hostages uh coming back and we
know from you know comments by different
Hamas officials they've had a lot of
concerns around that uh meanwhile we've
had Israeli officials in recent days who
have come out insisting that Israel uh
remains determined to meet its War
objective of defeating Hamas in Gaza
your land thank you that's the BBC's
your land now in Jerusalem there